Kafka reference guide (#18085)
quarkusio/quarkus: docs/src/main/asciidoc/kafka.adoc

and pull requests should be submitted there:
https://github.com/quarkusio/quarkus/tree/main/docs/src/main/asciidoc
////

> = Quarkus - Apache Kafka Reference Guide

Reviewer: ```suggestion
= Apache Kafka Reference Guide
```

----
<dependency>
    <groupId>io.quarkus</groupId>
    <artifactId>quarkus-smallrye-reactive-messaging-kafka</artifactId>
</dependency>
----

== Configuring Smallrye Kafka Connector

Because Smallrye Reactive Messaging framework supports different messaging backends like Apache Kafka, AMQP, Apache Camel, JMS, MQTT, etc., it employs a generic vocabulary:

- Applications send and receive *messages*. A message wraps a _payload_ and can be extended with some _metadata_. With the Kafka connector, a _message_ corresponds to a Kafka _record_.
- Messages transit on *channels*. Application components connect to channels to publish and consume messages. The Kafka connector maps _channels_ to Kafka _topics_.
- Channels are connected to message backends using *connectors*. Connectors are configured to map incoming messages to a specific channel (consumed by the application) and collect outgoing messages sent to a specific channel. Each connector is dedicated to a specific messaging technology. For example, the connector dealing with Kafka is named `smallrye-kafka`.

A minimal configuration for the Kafka connector with an incoming channel looks like the following:

[source, properties]
----

> kafka.bootstrap.servers=kafka:9092 <1>

Reviewer: I would remove it, or use `%prod.kafka.bootstrap.servers`, as we want to encourage the usage of dev services.

mp.messaging.incoming.prices.connector=smallrye-kafka <2>
----

<1> Configure the broker location. You can configure it globally or per channel. It defaults to localhost:9092
<2> Configure the connector to manage the prices channel. By default the topic name is same as the channel name. You can configure the topic attribute to override it.

> == Receiving messages from Kafka

Reviewer: If you remove the bootstrap servers below add a note here indicating that is can be configured globally or per channel and mention dev services.

}
----

`Message` type lets the consuming method to access the incoming message metadata and handle the acknowledgment manually.
We'll explore different acknowledgment strategies in <<commit-strategies>>.

If you want to access the Kafka record objects directly, use:

.ConsumerRecord
[source, java]
----
@Incoming("prices")
public void consume(ConsumerRecord<String, Double> record) {
    String key = record.key(); // Can be `null` if the incoming record has no key
    String value = record.value(); // Can be `null` if the incoming record has no value
    String topic = record.topic();
    int partition = record.partition();
    // ...
}
----

`ConsumerRecord` is provided by the underlying Kafka client and can be injected directly to the consumer method.
Another simpler approach consists in using `Record`: 

.Record
[source, java]
----
@Incoming("prices")
public void consume(Record<String, Double> record) {
    String key = record.key(); // Can be `null` if the incoming record has no key
    String value = record.value(); // Can be `null` if the incoming record has no value
}
----

`Record` is a simple wrapper around key and payload of the incoming Kafka record.

.@Channel

> // I would show an example with Multi and not raw publisher.

Reviewer: Remove comment

> Alternatively, your application can inject a Reactive Stream `Publisher` in your bean and subscribe to its events as the following example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Alternatively, your application can inject a `Multi` in your bean and subscribe to its events as the following example:
```

    @Transactional
    public void store(int priceInUsd) {
        Price price = new Price();
        price.value = priceInUsd;
        price.persist();
    }

}
----

The complete example is available in the `kafka-panache-quickstart` {quickstarts-tree-url}/kafka-panache-quickstart[directory].

[NOTE]
====
There are 2 `@Blocking` annotations:

1. `io.smallrye.reactive.messaging.annotations.Blocking`
2. `io.smallrye.common.annotation.Blocking`

They have the same effect.
Thus, you can use both.
The first one provides more fine-grain tuning such as the worker pool to use and whether it preserves the order.
The second one, used also with other reactive features of Quarkus, uses the default worker pool and preserves the order.
====

=== Acknowledgment Strategies

All messages received by a consumer must be acknowledged.
In the absence of acknowledgment, the processing is considered on error.
If the consumer method receives a `Record` or a payload, the message will be acked on method return, also known as `Strategy.POST_PROCESSING`.
If the consumer method returns another reactive stream or `CompletableStage`, the message will be acked when the downstream message is acked.

> // No, it will be ack then the produced message get acked -> Needs confirmation

Reviewer: To be removed.

Author: 👍

            long target = position.getValue() == null ? 0L : position.getValue().offset();
            LOGGER.info("Seeking position " + target + " for " + position.getKey());
            consumer.seek(position.getKey(), target);
        }
    }

}
----

[source, java]
----
package inbound;

import io.smallrye.reactive.messaging.kafka.IncomingKafkaRecord;
import org.eclipse.microprofile.reactive.messaging.Acknowledgment;
import org.eclipse.microprofile.reactive.messaging.Incoming;

import javax.enterprise.context.ApplicationScoped;
import java.util.concurrent.CompletableFuture;
import java.util.concurrent.CompletionStage;

@ApplicationScoped
public class KafkaRebalancedConsumer {

    @Incoming("rebalanced-example")
    @Acknowledgment(Acknowledgment.Strategy.NONE)
    public CompletionStage<Void> consume(IncomingKafkaRecord<Integer, String> message) {
        // We don't need to ACK messages because in this example we set offset during consumer re-balance
        return CompletableFuture.completedFuture(null);
    }

}
----

To configure the inbound connector to use the provided listener we either set the consumer rebalance listener’s identifier:

> // Me thinking that .name is not great anymore. we may want to enhance this with .idenfier.

Reviewer: to be removed - can you create an issue for this?

Author: 👍

By default, the connector does wait for Kafka to acknowledge the record to continue the processing (acknowledging the received Message).
You can disable this by setting the `waitForWriteCompletion` attribute to `false`.

Note that the `acks` attribute has a huge impact on the record acknowledgement.

If a record cannot be written, the message is nacked.

=== Backpressure

The Kafka outbound connector handles back-pressure, monitoring the number of in-flight messages waiting to be written to the Kafka broker.
The number of in-flight messages is configured using the `max-inflight-messages` attribute and defaults to 1024.

The connector only sends that amount of messages concurrently.
No other messages will be sent until at least one in-flight message gets acknowledged by the broker.
Then, the connector writes a new message to Kafka when one of the broker’s in-flight messages get acknowledged.
Be sure to configure Kafka’s `batch.size` and `linger.ms` accordingly.

You can also remove the limit of in-flight messages by setting `max-inflight-messages` to `0`.
However, note that the Kafka Producer may block if the number of requests reaches `max.in.flight.requests.per.connection`.

> === Retries

Reviewer: Should it be under the producing message section?

Author: I think we can rename this section to "Retrying message dispatch" and keep it here. I was thinking of adding the "Retrying processing" section near receiving messages/error handling. What do you think ?

When the Kafka producer receives an error from the server, if it is a transient, recoverable error, the client will retry sending the batch of messages.
This behavior is controlled by `retries` and `retry.backoff.ms` parameters.
In addition to this, Smallrye reactive messaging will retry individual messages on recoverable errors, depending on the `retries` and `delivery.timeout.ms` parameters.

Note that while having retries in a reliable system is a best practice, the `max.in.flights.requests.per.session` parameter defaults to `5`, meaning that the order of the messages is not guaranteed.
If the message order is a must for your use case, setting `max.in.flights.requests.per.session` to `1` will make sure a single batch of messages is sent at a time, in the expense of limiting the throughput of the producer.

> // should we have an option to disable message level retries ?

Reviewer: to be removed.

=== In-memory channels

> // That should be in the reactive messaging reference guide, but because it does not exist, let's keep it.

Reviewer: to be removed.

----
<dependency>
    <groupId>io.quarkus</groupId>
    <artifactId>quarkus-smallrye-reactive-messaging-kafka</artifactId>
</dependency>
----

== Configuring Smallrye Kafka Connector

Because Smallrye Reactive Messaging framework supports different messaging backends like Apache Kafka, AMQP, Apache Camel, JMS, MQTT, etc., it employs a generic vocabulary:

- Applications send and receive *messages*. A message wraps a _payload_ and can be extended with some _metadata_. With the Kafka connector, a _message_ corresponds to a Kafka _record_.
- Messages transit on *channels*. Application components connect to channels to publish and consume messages. The Kafka connector maps _channels_ to Kafka _topics_.
- Channels are connected to message backends using *connectors*. Connectors are configured to map incoming messages to a specific channel (consumed by the application) and collect outgoing messages sent to a specific channel. Each connector is dedicated to a specific messaging technology. For example, the connector dealing with Kafka is named `smallrye-kafka`.

A minimal configuration for the Kafka connector with an incoming channel looks like the following:

[source, properties]
----

> %prod.kafka.bootstrap.servers=kafka:9092 <1>

Reviewer: Add a note about the %prod prefix. Something like:

NOTE: The `%prod` prefix indicates that the property is only used when the application runs in _prod_ mode (so not in dev or test). Refer to the xref:config-reference.adoc#profiles[Profile documentation] for further details.

Author: 👍  done

@ApplicationScoped
public class PriceProcessor {

    private static final double CONVERSION_RATE = 0.88;

    @Incoming("price-in")
    @Outgoing("price-out")
    public double process(double price) {
        return price * CONVERSION_RATE;
    }

}
----

The parameter of the `process` method is the incoming message payload, whereas the return will be used as the outgoing messaage payload. 
Previously mentioned signatures for parameter and return types, as described in previous sections are supported, such as `Message<T>`, `Record<K, V>` etc.

You can apply asynchronous stream processing by consuming and returning reactive stream `Multi<T>` type:

[source,java]
----
import javax.enterprise.context.ApplicationScoped;

import org.eclipse.microprofile.reactive.messaging.Incoming;
import org.eclipse.microprofile.reactive.messaging.Outgoing;

import io.smallrye.mutiny.Multi;

@ApplicationScoped
public class PriceProcessor {

    private static final double CONVERSION_RATE = 0.88;

    @Incoming("price-in")
    @Outgoing("price-out")
    public Multi<Double> process(Multi<Integer> prices) {
        return prices.filter(p -> p > 100).map(p -> p * CONVERSION_RATE);
    }

}
----

> == Accessing Kafka clients directly

Reviewer: Add an anchor as this should be referenced from the getting started guide.

Author: Added the reference to the getting started guide
